Wahoo Bay Capstone Project 
Project Summary
Our team is developing a software system that allows a user to fully engage in the immersive activities of the Wahoo Bay Educational Marine Park. The software system will have two primary components: a data section where users can access all the data collected from Wahoo Bay, and an educational section for teachers and students to create and experience classes.

Problem Description
Wahoo Bay is a small, protected, shallow-water inlet in Pompano Beach, FL, that is being transformed into an immersive educational marine park experience, combining underwater and on-shore experiences with the goal of raising awareness of the importance of keeping our oceans and reefs healthy and thriving in an entertaining and memorable way. 
Wahoo Bay needs a method for potential visitors and researchers to access the data that is being made available through sensors and cameras on site at the bay. This data is currently being collected and sent to SenseStream, but that is not a user friendly layout for most. Our team will need to collect this data from SenseStream, and display it properly for those who would like to view it. Additionally, this data will potentially need to be downloaded by researchers so we need to make it accessible in that way too.
On top of this our advisors at Wahoo Bay would like a way to teach students about the bay as well as marine ecology in general. A method is needed for teachers to create classes and for students to access these classes. 
So, our problem is twofold: gather and host the data from Wahoo Bay, and then share that information in a user-friendly way.

Proposed Solution
To solve this problem our team is developing a software system that allows a user to fully engage in the immersive activities of the Wahoo Bay Educational Marine Park. The software system will have two primary components.  
The first component consists of live video and data feeds of current weather and water conditions derived from sensors taking measurements in real time at the site. The sensors and cameras for collecting this data are already in place at Wahoo Bay, but our team will need to access the data through the SenseStream API and then save it to Wahoo Bay’s database for easier access. This will allow us to build the second component of the project.
The second component is an educational experience linked to the data that will allow the user to explore the meaning of the data in context, along with educational content targeted towards specific grade-levels of children. There are three main requirements for this section. The team will need to both manipulate the data to a more convenient format, and figure out the best way to present this data to an average viewer of the website. Additionally, while the grade specific educational material is not being written by us we will need to find a format that is both simple enough for elementary school students and one interesting enough to keep middle and high school students from becoming disinterested. To allow students to save progress, for teachers to create classes, and for researchers to download our data safely we will also need to create a user management system.
User accounts will simply be part of a table in Wahoo Bay’s database, but for user safety security measures have to be considered as well. User passwords will, of course, be encrypted. Sign-in and the persistence of said sign-in will be handled using JSON Web Tokens (JWTs). JWTs handle security by being signed through our backend during creation with a secret key. This is important because all the data on the token is not encrypted meaning without the signature the token could be recreated and used by anyone. On top of the security this token adds, it also creates a convenience for any potential future expansion of the web servers. When handling sign-in through JWTs the token is given to the user and stored on their device, so the user will send the JWT with every request allowing them to stay signed-in. This is better than the older approach of handling user sign-in on the server side as it prevents the user from accidentally being signed-out if they are served a webpage from a different server than the one they originally signed-in on.
Beyond Wahoo Bay specifically, the hope is that this website’s format is well received and transferable to other nature studies sites. The Wahoo Bay team expressed interest in potentially using the website as a template for similar projects all over the world. As such, formatting of the website and simplicity of the codebase are two primary focuses when it comes to the work of this project. 
